## Introduction:

Road collisions continue to pose serious safety risks in Canada, affecting lives, healthcare resources, and the economy. The total economic cost of road collisions in Canada is estimated to exceed $10 billion annually. Toronto consistently reports the highest number of traffic collisions among Canadian cities, followed by Montreal, Calgary, and Vancouver. This is largely due to its population size, traffic volume, and urban density. The major causes of road collision is due to human errors (like distracted/aggressive/impaired driving, speeding , inexperience etc.), environmental factors (like snow, fog, rain, poor lighting, glare at sunrise or sunset etc.), road and infrastructure factors (like road surface condition, alignment, traffic control etc.), vehicle factors (like brake, steering or suspension problem, wiper or headlight problem etc.) external or situational factors(pedestrian behavior, peak time of day/week, traffic density etc.) or combinational causes of these factors. 

In this project my focus is on the analyzing the collisions and its patterns occur due to the factors like environment, time and road & infrastructure. These external factors are more reliable, consistent and directly measurable. Other factors, such as vehicle condition or driver behavior, are difficult to control and offer limited potential for actionable policy interventions by authorities. This study is based on the dataset provided by Transport Canada’s National Collision Database (NCDB). NCDB is available under Canada’s Open Government Licence. As Toronto consistently ranks highest in total reported traffic collisions among Canadian cities, the collision dataset provided by the Toronto police Service Records Management systems licensed by Open Government License - Toronto, is also used for comparative analysis. 
